### HOW TO START THE APPLICATION

There are two ways, to run our project. The first and easier one, which you most likely 
want to use for grading our project, is to use the SimpleHTTPServer we already used for A3.
To use this approach:

1. Open a terminal and navigate to vis_clustering_algorithms/dist
2. Run "python -m SimpleHTTPServer" in this directory
3. The Application is available under localhost:8000

The second one is using node.js and requires the 
installation of this tool on your machine. This approach is described in the section prerequisites
and usage. 


### INTRODUCTION

Our Project has the Goal to provide a visualization for the OPTICS Clustering Algorithm.
For more Details see https://gregorredinger.github.io/vis_clustering_algorithms/

### PROJECT STRUCTURE (not final)

```
.
├── dist                        # minified/concatenated/bundled client side code and static resources, used on production sites
│   ├── img
│   ├── bundle.js
│   └── index.html
├── doc                         # documentation generated by jsdoc
├── node_modules                # dependencies of the Project (defined in package.json)
├── src                         # "source" files to build and develop the project.   
│   ├── client                  # raw client-side code (js, scss) before minification, concatenation & bundling, used to read/edit the client-side code.
│   │   ├── components          # parts of the Application with a specific Functionality (e.g. for a Online-Shop: Chart, Customer, Billing,...)
│   │   │   └── App
│   │   │       ├── app.js
│   │   │       └── app.scss
│   │   ├── shared              # mixins and classes which are shared between components
│   │   └── main.js             # entry point for webpack
│   └── server                  # server-side code (e.g. api's, business logic, persistence)
│       └── main.js             # config of server
├── test                        # the project's tests scripts
├── .babelrc                    # babel config
├── .gitignore
├── package.json                # build scripts and dependencies
├── README.md
└── webpack.config.js
```


### PREREQUISITES

-node (use latest lts version, i recommend installation via nvm - https://github.com/creationix/nvm/blob/master/README.md,
but you can also just download the latest lts version of node from the node.js website)

-npm (usually npm ships with node, to update: "npm install npm@latest -g")


### USAGE

1. npm update - update package.json Dependencies (only after first download via gitlab), or when you want to update your Dependencies.
2. npm run build - updates the js code (bundle.js) whenever changes to the Code are made
3. npm run server - starts the server

! Don't exit the processes "build" & "server" by Typing Strg + C, if you wanna do something in the Terminal, open a new Terminal Window


### CONTRIBUTING

* Additional Packages can be installed via "npm install packagename --save", or if
it's a Package that's only used during development "npm install packagename --save-dev".
The --save is important because it saves the package to the list of dependencies in
the package.json File, if it's not included there, the package will not be installed
automatically by typing "npm update", which is unfortunate if the package is used in
the Code but the other Contributors have to install it manually, because the package is 
not listed in the package.json file. A Source of available Packages can be found here: https://www.npmjs.com/

* The Project Pages for the Milestones can be found in the Branch "gh-pages", see https://github.com/gregorredinger/vis_clustering_algorithms/tree/gh-pages

* Scripts for executing Tasks (e.g. tests) can be defined in the file "package.json" under scripts. 

* Don't add the "node_modules" folder or "bundle.js" to git.


### TROUBLESHOOTING

##### Webpack reports error during module bundling
delete node_modules folder and run "npm update" in terminal

##### You have Accidentally pushed node_modules folder to gitlab (which can cause errors by other users)
1. git rm -r --cached node_modules
2. git commit -m 'Remove the now ignored directory node_modules'
3. git push origin master

##### Webpack don't update my bundle.js code / the browser don't reflect the changes I made to the Code
* Check if you haven't closed the terminal Window where webpack runs after typing npm run build,
if you have hit "Strg + C" you have killed the watch process. You have to run webpack and express server in different Terminal Windows. 
* Clear the cache of the Browser, you can make this process easier by using Plugins e.g. search for "Clear Cache Chrome Plugin"
 
##### Webstorm complains about wrong js Syntax
Go to File -> Settings -> Languages & Frameworks -> JavaScript and change "Javascript language version" to "ECMAScript 6"
  
##### Error Messages from Webpack saying Module error: Unexpected ...
Most likely a dependency Problem, because some Packages don't install all required Dependencies for them automatically (e.g. "sass-loader" needs "node-sass", but
don't install it during the installation of sass-loader). Check your package.json file for this kind of missing dependencies.
You can also delete your node_modules folder and run npm update, during the reinstallation of the packages npm will warn you about needed,
but not installed dependencies. 